# text-improvement-engine
This is a screening [assignment](TASK.md) for the Machine Learning Engineer position at Compund Solutions.

The Text Improvement Engine is a tool that analyzes given text and suggests improvements based on the similarity to a list of standardized phrases. These standardized phrases represent the ideal way certain concepts should be articulated, and the tool recommends changes to align the input text closer to these standards.

## Project Objective

The primary objective of this project is to develop a tool that can:

- Accept user input text for analysis.
- Compare the input text to a predefined list of standardized phrases.
- Suggest replacements for phrases in the input text with their more "standard" versions.
- Display similarity scores to provide insight into suggested changes.

## Features

- User-friendly Command-Line Interface (CLI): Allows users to easily input text for analysis.
- Customizable Standardized Phrases: You can modify the list of standardized phrases and their similarity thresholds in the `standardized_phrases.json` file.
- Pretrained Language Model: The project uses the Facebook BART model for text analysis.
- Consistent Tokenization: Ensures that both the standardized phrases and input text are tokenized consistently for accurate similarity calculation.
- Relevant Content Detection: Filters out input text that does not contain relevant content based on keywords.
- Cosine Similarity: Calculates similarity scores using cosine similarity between input text and standardized phrases.

## Setup and Usage

1. Clone the repository:
```git clone https://github.com/alibek-git/text-improvement-engine.git```

2. Navigate to the project directory:
```cd text-improvement-engine```

3. Install dependencies:
```pip install -r requirements.txt```

4. Run the Text Improvement Engine:
```python text_improvement.py```


Follow the on-screen instructions to enter the text you want to analyze. Type 'exit' to quit the program.

## Customization

You can customize the list of standardized phrases and their similarity thresholds by editing the `standardized_phrases.json` file in the project directory.

## Examples

Here are some sample input text and suggestions generated by the Text Improvement Engine:

**Input Text:**
_In today's meeting, we discussed a variety of issues affecting our department. Growth is essential for our future._

**Suggestions:**

1. Original phrase: growth
   Recommended replacement: drive growth
   Similarity score: 0.724983811
2. Original phrase: future
   Recommended replacement: drive growth
   Similarity score: 0.601871431

## Contributors

- Alibek Zhubekov alibek1991@gmail.com

## License

-